SIG-Network: Add Subproject Leads responsibilities (#7967)
kubernetes/community: sig-network/README.md

- **Contact:**
  - Slack: [#external-dns](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/external-dns)
### gateway-api

> - **Leads:**
>   - Rob Scott (**[@robscott](https://github.com/robscott)**), Google
>   - Shane Utt (**[@shaneutt](https://github.com/shaneutt)**), Kong
>   - Nick Young (**[@youngnick](https://github.com/youngnick)**), Isovalent

Reviewer: Since we started working on this doc @tssurya, @mlavacca has joined as a Gateway API lead and I've switched orgs to Red Hat:

```suggestion
- **Leads:**
  - Mattia Lavacca (**[@mlavacca](https://github.com/mlavacca)**), Kong
  - Rob Scott (**[@robscott](https://github.com/robscott)**), Google
  - Shane Utt (**[@shaneutt](https://github.com/shaneutt)**), Red Hat
  - Nick Young (**[@youngnick](https://github.com/youngnick)**), Isovalent
```

Author: ack resolving this

- **Contact:**
  - Slack: [#external-dns](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/external-dns)
### gateway-api
- **Leads:**
  - Mattia Lavacca (**[@mlavacca](https://github.com/mlavacca)**), Kong
  - Rob Scott (**[@robscott](https://github.com/robscott)**), Google

>   - Shane Utt (**[@shaneutt](https://github.com/shaneutt)**), Kong

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Shane Utt (**[@shaneutt](https://github.com/shaneutt)**), Red Hat
```

Author: shame on me

[subproject-definition]: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/governance.md#subprojects
[working-group-definition]: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/governance.md#working-groups
<!-- BEGIN CUSTOM CONTENT -->

### Responsibilities of Subproject Leads

Just like the [SIG Network Chair's](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/sig-network/role-sig-chair.md#whats-expected) expectation is to "run the show" of the whole SIG, the Subproject Lead's expectation is to "run the show" for that subproject. This includes:

- **Transparent Project Planning and Maintainence:**
  - Leads must provide transparent view into their historical and future project plans (eg; using GitHub project boards)
  - Leads must communicate the project plans to the wider community by linking it to the project's README pages.

>   - Project must be kept in good health by the lead through regular issue triaging and PR reviews (delegating this to other members in the community is good!)

Reviewer 2: Check testgrids and jobs failures, CI Health

Author: also good point, but I see all these points got overwritten for the final version; I can add this back in @shaneutt are you ok with adding this and the api-review bits that antonio suggested into the list?

Reviewer: Sure np

- **Regular Project Updates**

>   - Leads must report on project's status, significant releases/events, interesting developments to the wider SIG-Network community (eg; in the SIG-Network meetings or sig-network slack channel or mailing-list).

Reviewer 2: Projects that includes the official CRDs using k8s.io  must go throught API review process and is described here https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/sig-architecture/api-review-process.md

Leads are expected to make sure this well defined processes across the project are followed

Reviewer: Yep, let's add that.

[subproject-definition]: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/governance.md#subprojects
[working-group-definition]: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/governance.md#working-groups
<!-- BEGIN CUSTOM CONTENT -->

### Subproject Leads

SIG network provides some additional responsibilities for subproject leads beyond was in covered in the [standard subproject definition][subprojects].
Most of these additional responsibilities relate to communication about their projects within SIG Network, and to the greater community:

- **Transparent Project Planning, Maintenance and Communication:**

>   - Subproject Leads **MUST** provide transparent view into their historical and future project plans (eg; using GitHub project boards, KEPs, or custom enhancement proposals (see [GEPs]/[NPEPs])).

Reviewer: Sorry, habit. Inspired by RFCs and a common [thing we've done in Gateway API](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/gateway-api/blob/ce6d2c6366847386747d7aa6ebb8ff95693dd536/apis/v1/gateway_types.go#L70), similarly inspired. It's a good callout that if someone comes in here and doesn't know that, it might seem a bit nasty. I'm fine with just changing all these to a plain must.

>   - Subproject Leads **MUST** provide transparent view into their historical and future project plans (eg; using GitHub project boards, KEPs, or custom enhancement proposals (see [GEPs]/[NPEPs])).

Reviewer 3: In RFCs it's always applied to _implementations_ though. It feels weird to apply it to people.

>   - Subproject Leads **MUST** provide transparent view into their historical and future project plans (eg; using GitHub project boards, KEPs, or custom enhancement proposals (see [GEPs]/[NPEPs])).

Reviewer: Agreed

>   - Subproject Leads **MUST** provide transparent view into their historical and future project plans (eg; using GitHub project boards, KEPs, or custom enhancement proposals (see [GEPs]/[NPEPs])).

Author: ack changing it to must

>   - Subproject leads **MUST** create, maintain and be present in a public [Kubernetes Slack] channel with the naming `#sig-network-<subproject>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Subproject leads **MUST** create, maintain and be present in a public [Kubernetes Slack] channel with the easy-to-find naming `#sig-network-<subproject>` for their sub-project.
```

  - Subproject leads **SHOULD** create and maintain a regular public [Zoom] sync on the [SIG Network Calendar].

>   - Subproject leads **MUST** keep the project in good health through regular issue triaging, PR reviews, CI health monitoring and checking testgrids (delegating this to other members in the community is good!)

Reviewer: While it's absolutely true that we want subprojects to do this, this one is difficult.

With the above MUST items (make your process clear, and create a channel) these are easy things to identify when they aren't happening and just point to this doc. "good health" for a project however can be really subjective :thinking: I think I'm in favor of dropping this one for now, if we feel in the future there's some need related to this I think it should be its own effort.

```suggestion
```

Author: hmm but what's the point of being a lead if your project members are not having a good experience... so what I meant in this point with issue triage and PR reviews is that I am not necessarily saying the lead has to be the one doing it; but the lead needs to make sure "its happening somehow ;; either the members or rotating with other leads etc..."

the CI health monitoring and testgrid was @aojea 's suggestion I'll let him chime in

Reviewer: In retrospect, I rescind my thought about dropping this. Let's just use the softer must language and consider this resolved.

>   - Projects that include the official CRDs using `k8s.io` must go through API review process as is described here https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/sig-architecture/api-review-process.md and Subproject leads are expected to make sure this well defined processes across Kubernetes is followed.

Reviewer: Unfortunately "official CRDs" is only a colloquialism at the moment, I recommend this language instead:

```suggestion
  - Projects that distribute CRDs **MUST** go through the [API review process](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/sig-architecture/api-review-process.md) for major releases.
```

Reviewer: Indeed, it was meant as more of an extra reminder but if you feel its too redundant I'm fine with dropping it.

Author: this was suggested by @aojea as well from previous review iterations.. will wait to see what he thinks..

Reviewer 2: I saw some confusion around this several times so I thought it was good to reinforce the message

Reviewer: Dan as long as you're not strongly opposed, then I propose we leave this in as an extra reminder?

Reviewer 2: I was chatting with @robscott about this recently, I think that we need to reword this as something 

> Subprojects should follow project guidelines and involve the SIG in user-facing changes, such as new APIs, which require API review.

Reviewer 2: @thockin please chime in and see if we can get this merged

Reviewer 4: Anything with a *k8s.io prefix MUST go thru API review.  Other sub-projects SHOULD.  If I recall the rules correctly.

Reviewer: That being the case, my preference would be that we add an explicit MUST for any official SIG Network sub-project that distributes CRD APIs. This helps us to (at bare minimum) stay in touch with what the project is up to (albeit the other stuff here about checking in regularly should help with that as well). One of the high level goals of adding these additional responsibilities is to promote more communication.

Reviewer 4: I am fine with that.

Author: tried to update it based on the discussion here, resolving this let's see if the next push makes it better.

[subproject-definition]: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/governance.md#subprojects
[working-group-definition]: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/governance.md#working-groups
<!-- BEGIN CUSTOM CONTENT -->

### Subproject Leads

SIG network provides some additional responsibilities for subproject leads beyond was in covered in the [standard subproject definition][subprojects].
Most of these additional responsibilities relate to communication about their projects within SIG Network, and to the greater community:

> - **Transparent Project Planning, Maintainence and Communication:**

Author: ```suggestion
- **Transparent Project Planning, Maintenence and Communication:**
```
